---
layout: post
title: "Taking the Plunge with Vim"
tagline: "Or, how I learned to stop worrying and love the command line"
tags: [Vim, Git, Tmux, Sublime Text]
---
If there's anything that [Vim](http://www.vim.org/) users love more than Vim itself, it's evangelizing the benefits of Vim to all of the mouse-and-menu loving users of other text editors in the world.I'm just going to come out and say it: there's even more than a hint of smug disdain among many Vim users for even the most modern of GUI-based text editors.

I, however, have always been highly skeptical of Vim's purported benefits. Could it really be that no one has been able to improve upon a program first released more than 22 years ago? I mean, there's a reason why virtually every computer interface for the last two decades has revolved around a mouse and a GUI, right?  The number one benefit that most Vim evangelists site is the sheer speed with which a Vim pro can switch around between files and edit text. But the real question isn't whether a highly seasoned Vim-er is faster than an experienced user of another editor, it's can someone who isan experienced user of another editor develop fast with Vim during the literally years it will take them to master Vim's myriad configuration options and arcane commands?

My gut answer to that question has always been no. I've used Sublime Text since I started programming, and I like to think I've gotten pretty good with it. I've learned lots of handy shortcuts that speed up my workflow, but I have lots of plugins and code snippets that have made me much quicker working with most of the filetypes I encounter that I would be with even vanilla Sublime. It was hard for me to see how any potential eventual (probably minimal) workflow performance gains I would get would be worth the long and arduous process of learning Vim. Plus, I love to be on the cutting edge, and I wanted to believe that despite the traditionalist's fondness for their tried-and-true editor, that well-designed contemporary editor would ultimately win the performance race.

Then I had a few days at work where I didn't have any pressing deadlines, so I decided just for fun I would give Vim a shot myself. If for no other reason so I would have better-informed retorts the next time a Vim user snorted at me for booting up Sublime. ...And now I'm totally hooked on Vim. The Vim skeptics -including myself- are often quick to point out the Vim's steep learning curve, and while it's true that there's a lot to learn, I was surprised that within a couple hours, even a complete novice like me could get surprisingly fast with the two most basic operations most people do every day: moving text around and locating files. I was actually able to get the most of the basics of Vim's text selecting and moving commands down with a couple of days, and their already feeling pretty intuitive to me. Sure, there's a ton that I don't know, but I'm genuinely impressed with what I can do with what I already do know.

So I'm very far from being an expert with Vim, but within a few days of using it, and a few hours spent researching and installing plugins, I feel comfortable and quick enough with it to use it as my daily text editor, and I figure I'll pick up the rest along the way. I'm surprised to say, there's something very satisfying about how powerfully you can alter text with just a few keystrokes, and I feel like I'm discovering a mindblowing (and useful) new trick every day.

I definitely want to give a shout out to some of the resources that helped me get on my merry way with Vim. There are many tutorials available on the web, and while I really enjoyed [Vim Adventures](http://vim-adventures.com/) and Ben McCormick's [Learning Vim in 2014](http://benmccormick.org/learning-vim-in-2014/), the tutorial I found the most intuitive and helpful in getting me off the ground with Vim was Daniel Miessler's [Vim Tutorial and Primer](http://danielmiessler.com/study/vim/).

I'm also an obsessive customizer, and Vim is certainly the customizer's dream. One of the things I like about Vim is it's *my* Vim. I have everything set up just the way I like it, other users be damned.  There are quite a few [great resources](http://vimawesome.com/) for discovering Vim plugins, and it turns out that with tools like [Vundle](https://github.com/gmarik/Vundle.vim) the vast majority of them are pretty easy to install and configure, too. You can also check your Vim configuration into version control, so even if you do break something, it's easy to revert to the previous, unbroken state. You can also share your configuration with others (you can see mine [here](https://github.com/mattpetrie/.vim)), and I've found a great way to pick up some hand Vim configuration tricks is by perusing the .vimrc files of experienced users. And of course, there's the killer combo of Vim and [Tmux](http://tmux.sourceforge.net/), which if you decide you like Vim I highly recommend exploring.

So I suppose I have to take back all of those critical things I've said about Vim in the past. Just do me a favor: if you ever catch me smugly blathering on about how much faster Vim is than whatever text editor you're using, smack some sense into me right then and there.
