---
layout: post
title: "I am A Professional Web Developer"
tags: [App Academy, Substantial, web development]
---
Has it really been three months since my last post? Well, if you're wondering why the long absence, the title really says it all. Since the end of July, I have been employed as a web developer for [Substantial](http://www.substantial.com) in San Francisco. One of the cool things about this blog and being an App Academy alumnus now is that I get contacted by quite a few prospective students asking for advice about the application process or the program, and I really wanted to return to write this post to answer what I know was one of the biggest burning questions when I was a researching the program: **Graduating from App Academy directly led to me getting a challenging, highly-satisifying, well-paying job as a web developer.**

Finding a job might have come relatively quickly (about 6 weeks), but not painlessly. App Academy provides some great training and advice for the application process, but essentially you work just as hard as you did during the program, only the work isn't nearly as fun. I applied to somewhere in the neighborhood of 20 jobs per week, and more than 100 total. Out of that I got a couple dozen phone interviews, and a handful of on-site interviews (the hiring process for most tech companies is amazingly similar: an initial "phone screen" to make sure you're not crazy and have a reasonable understanding of what the job entails, usually followed by a technical phone/video interview or a take-home coding challenge, before the final "on-site" interview where you meet several folks from the company and usually have a few more technical challenges to complete - there are many things about the conventional process that strike me as anywhere from inefficient to downright absurd, but that's for another post). By the end I was so sick of hearing my own story over and over again that I had to remind myself to sound excited before every interview.

I received several offers, but after seeing what Substantial had to offer I knew they were the clear choice for me. I appreciated that the company really values it's culture and supporting a healthy work-life balance for employees. I also get to work with some incredibly brilliant programmers. But what really sealed it for me was the opportunity to be involved in the entire product development lifecycle. Substantial builds digital products from the ground up, and works in small, highly-collaborative teams, so not only do I get to be involved in every technical aspect from dev ops to backend to frontend development, but I also can contribute input to the design and project management aspects of the product as well. Simply put: I got into programming because I love making stuff, and Substantial gives me the opportunity to be involved in making stuff in all kinds of fascinating ways.

Speaking of which, I've also probably learned more in my first 6 weeks on the job than I did in all of App Academy. This is not to disparage App Academy at all - if anything I think one of the best benefits of a/A is acquiring the ability to learn and absorb new material incredibly rapidly. But there's definitely plenty to absorb in a professional, collaborative environment that just doesn't come up in an hobby or educational project. I'm just starting to get over the feeling that I have no idea what I'm doing and feeling like I'm really able to contribute to the projects I'm on. It's been absolutely overwhelming, but I also just shipped my first professional app this week, which I have to say was immensely satisfying.

I still feel like I have so much to learn, and so much I *want* to learn. I'm hoping to continue to document those experiences here, so now that life is a bit more settled again, expect more regular updates!
