---
layout: post
tagline: "A few pointers for aspiring bootcampers"
tags : [developer bootcamps, App Academy]
---
If you are considering (or currently) applying to [App Academy](http://appacademy.io "App Academy"), the process can be not only grueling, but also a bit mysterious. Perhaps more than any their peers, App Academy keeps their cards very close to their chest regarding their admissions. The sequence basically goes like this: written application, coding test, "interview" with second coding test via Skype (really just another test), final coding test and interview via Skype. All the way up to the final round, App Academy offers you very little feedback about how you are doing or what to expect, apart from whether or not you've made it to the next round. 

While this is by no means a comprehensive account of the admissions process, I thought I would share a few of the things that really helped me when I was applying. I can't guarantee that any of this information will improve your chances of getting accepted. It is only my own personal experience, and I don't know (and likely never will) exactly what appealed about me to App Academy that led to me getting in. But I do hope it might give you a bit of an idea of what to expect and how to prepare in order to put your best foot forward during the application process.

###Take the written application seriously
Since it's just a web form, it might be tempting to fill out and fire off the application quickly. However, one difference between App Academy and some of the other programs of their ilk is that the "interview" process leans much more heavily towards coding tests than getting-to-know-you style interviews. It wasn't until my very final round interview, after completing a coding challenge, that I got any chance to speak to a human about why I thought I would be a good pick for the program. I knew to expect that based on other accounts of the interview process I read on the web, so I approached the written application as my best chance to express my personality. I gave a lot of thought to what the "theme" about me was that I wanted to get across, and I made sure my answer to every question tied back to the theme. This was going to be my "elevator pitch" for myself in written form. In my case, I touched on my interest in all things tech, but really emphasised that the common thing in everything I had done professionally before (journalism, selling wine) required a lot of learning on the fly. I had several people edit my responses and give me feedback, and then thoroughly edited down each section until I had clear, concise, 2-4 paragraph answers to each question.

###Learn as much code as you can before you start
This might seem obvious, but I've read accounts of people who were compeltely caught off guard by the coding challenges requiring you to, you know, *code*. Every step of the App Academy interview process involved a timed coding challenge. In fact, every step except for the last one was pretty much *only* a timed coding challenge. That said, the level of coding knowledge necessary to solve the problems is trivial. If you complete and understand any of the major basic Ruby tutorials available on the web, you should have all the syntax you need. [Ruby Monk](https://rubymonk.com/ "Ruby Monk") was the one that worked best for me, but there are many others to choose from that can be discovered with a quick Google search. While you don't need particularly advanced knowledge of Ruby syntax at all, being comfortable and familiar with basic concepts like loops, variables, and data types will really help you when you come to the coding challenges, so you can spend your energy focusing on solving the problem instead of trying to remember syntax.

###Get comfortable solving timed problems
As mentioned before, the level of coding knowledge required is minimal. However, many of the challenges require some quick and sometimes tricky logical reasoning. They're really looking for how you approach and solve the problem, and you don't want your brain to freeze up because of the pressure of the ticking clock. The best site I found for practicing solving timed coding challenges was [Coderbyte](http://coderbyte.com/ "Coderbyte"), which has a whole bunch of timed (usually 10-15 minutes) coding challenges of escalating difficulty that you can solve in the language of your choice. If you can get through the "easy" difficulty problems on Coderbyte then you have more than enough Ruby knowledge to solve the problems App Academy will throw at you. [Project Euler](https://projecteuler.net/ "Project Euler"), while untimed, also offers coding problems of a similar variety to what you might encounter in the latter stages of the interview process, and so makes for some good practice as well.

###Get comfortable with "whiteboard" coding
All of the coding tests during the App Academy interviews are "whiteboard" tests - meaning you are just using a plain text document with no syntax highlighting, and no interpreter to run your code through to make sure it runs without errors. This was really hard for me to adjust to. In my fledgling days of coding I would often write just a couple lines of code and run them through an interpreter like IRB just to make sure I was getting the syntax right before moving on to the next couple lines. The first time I had to write code without that crutch was really disconcerting. You don't even get the satisfaction of running your completed code and watching it work. At some point you just have to declare, "okay I'm done and I think this should work" and trust that you got it right. In my case, immediately after each interview I immediately went back and checked my code. In every round I found typos and other small errors in my code. Each time I corrected my code, and sent a follow-up email to the interviewer explaining the errors I identified and how I had fixed them. I don't know if this helped my cause, but I don't think it hurt.

###"Limber up" by writing some code immediately before the interview
Immediately before both of my Skype interviews, I spent a bit of time practicing writing code fast. I rewrote FizzBuzz from scratch. I re-solved the problems from the very first written challenge App Academy sent me. I really believe that much like stretching before a workout, these little exercises helped "warm up" my brain so I was ready to hit the ground running when the coding challenges started. Bear in mind: the coding challenges are the very first thing you do when the interview starts. It's "Hello" and then "solve this problem" so if you are already fully in the code writing zone when the interview starts you're going to be in much better shape.

Good luck! I hope this helps you with your own application process. If you have any questions please feel free to [email](mailto:matthew.petrie@gmail.com) me and I'm happy to help in any way I can.